CALL FOR PARTICIPATION
CHI 2001 Workshop on
NEW INTERFACES FOR MUSICAL EXPRESSION
April 1 & 2, 2001
Seattle, USA


IMPORTANT DATES:

Jan 5, 2001      Submission deadline
Feb 2, 2001     Notification of acceptance
Mar 1, 2001    Submissions are published on the workshop web site
April 1, 2        Workshop, Post-workshop Event


THEME

The rapid evolution of digital media, advanced materials and other
technologies is opening up unprecedented opportunities for musical
interface inventors and designers. The possibilities afforded by these
new technologies have prompted an explosion of new musical forms.
Furthermore, they carry with them the challenges of a complex and
often confusing array of choices for musical composers and performers.
The design and evaluation of alternative musical controllers,
currently the leading edge of an ongoing dialogue between technology
and musical culture, involve many of the issues normally covered at
CHI conferences. This workshop will explore the impact of new
interface technologies on musical expression and exploration, discuss
practical concerns involved in the design of effective musical
interfaces, and attempt to identify major issues involved in the
interplay between technological change and innovation in musical
culture.


TOPICS

The workshop organizing committee invites original submissions
on topics related to new musical controllers including, but not
restricted to:

* Design reports: novel controllers and interfaces for musical expression
* Surveys of past work and/or stimulating ideas for future research
* Performance Experience reports: Live performance and composition using novel controllers
* Controllers for novices, education and entertainment
* Perceptual & cognitive issues in the design of musical controllers
* Novel controllers for collaborative performance
* Interface protocols, MIDI and alternative controllers
* Artistic, cultural, and social impact of new musical interfaces


WORKSHOP FORMAT

The workshop will consist of a highly interactive one and one half-day
long forum to encourage open dialogue between participants. All
accepted position statements will be posted on the workshop web site
in advance and workshop attendees are encouraged to get familiar with
them before the workshop. During the workshop, all participants will
be allocated 15-20 minutes to make a short presentation of their paper
with following Q&A. Use of videos and audio as well as live demos of
controllers is highly encouraged. The round table discussions will be
organized on the second day and all workshop participants will be
invited to provide their view on a number of topics. All workshop
attendees are invited for a half-day planned post-workshop
demo/performance event. Everyone will be welcome to demo their work
and there will also be a program of musical performances. Details of
the post-workshop venue and format will be made available at a later
date. Inquiries from musicians using alternative controller technology
who wish to demo or perform at the post-workshop event, but who do not
wish to submit a paper to the workshop, are also welcome.


SUBMISSION DETAILS:

Workshop participants are asked to submit either a short paper
summarizing their own work or a position statement giving a review of
a body of work with suggestions for future work.  Submissions will be
reviewed by the program committee and selected on the basis of
quality. 

Only electronic submissions in PDF format will be considered.
Papers should be a maximum of 4 pages in length and use the CHI
conference proceedings format which can be found at:
http://www.acm.org/sigs/sigchi/chipubform/

The additional materials (audio and video) are also encouraged and
should be published on the web with links included in the submission.

Authors planning to submit a paper are encouraged to send it to
the workshop organizers as soon as possible.


JOURNAL SPECIAL ISSUE

After the workshop, all authors will be invited to submit extended
versions of their manuscript for a second round of review, for
inclusion in a special journal issue on novel musical interfaces
(TBA). A report from the Workshop summarizing the workshop activities
will also be submitted and published in the CHI Bulletin.


ORGANIZERS

* Ivan Poupyrev,  Sony CSL, poup@csl.sony.co.jp
* Michael J. Lyons, ATR MIC Labs, mlyons@mic.atr.co.jp
* Sidney Fels, Electrical Engineering, UBC, ssfels@ece.ubc.ca
* Tina Blaine (Bean), CMU Entertainment Technology Center,
* sabean@sirius.com


PROGRAM COMMITTEE

* Krystyna Bobrowski, College of San Mateo Electronic Music Program 
* Perry Cook, Computer Science, Princeton
* Reek N. Havok, Experience Music Project
* Kenji Mase, ATR MIC Labs
* Kaffe Matthews, Live Convertor, Annette Works
* Max Matthews, CCRMA, Stanford
* Joe Paradiso, MIT Media Lab
* Andy Schloss, School of Music, University of Victoria
* Laetitia Sonami, Performer/instrument builder
* Bill Verplank, CCRMA, Stanford
