# NIME 2024 Calls

## Call For Papers/Posters/Demos

We welcome submissions of original research on scientific and artistic development and use of new interfaces for musical expression.

There are four different paper submission categories:

*   Full paper (up to 5000 words in proceedings, recorded-video, optional demo/poster)
*   Short paper (up to 3000 words in proceedings, recorded-video, optional demo/poster)
*   Poster paper (up to 2000 words in proceedings, recorded-video, poster presentation)
*   Demo paper (up to 2000 words in proceedings, recorded-video, demo presentation. The paper should include a link to audio-visual documentation showcasing the technology and/or activity to be demonstrated.)

Word counts include all the text starting from the abstract. It excludes references and any text inside images and tables. Word count includes the abstract, headings, and all captions.

Applicants can choose their own preferred submission category. Based on the review process the chairs can move a submission to a different category which will then be communicated with the applicants.

### Proceedings Topics:

Original contributions are encouraged in, but not limited to, the following topics:

*   NIME2024: NIME research relating to the [theme](https://www.nime2024.org/index.html#theme)
*   Novel controllers, interfaces or instruments for musical expression
*   Augmented, embedded and hyper instruments
*   Technologies or systems for collaborative music-making
*   New performance paradigms for mobile music-making
*   Music-related human-computer interaction
*   Sensor and actuator technologies, including haptics and force feedback devices
*   Musical mapping strategies
*   Explorations of relationships between motion, gesture and music
*   Evaluation and user studies of new interfaces for musical expression
*   Evaluation and user studies of commercially available “off the shelf” interfaces
*   Interfaces for musical expression for people with special needs
*   Musical applications of robotics
*   Interactive sound art and installations
*   Performance rendering and generative algorithms
*   Machine learning in musical performance
*   Web-based music performance
*   Software frameworks, interface protocols, and data formats, for supporting musical interaction
*   Historical, theoretical or philosophical discussions about designing or performing with new interfaces
*   Discussions about the artistic, cultural, and social impact of NIME technology
*   Sonic interaction design
*   Pedagogical perspectives or reports on student projects in the framework of NIME-related courses
*   Practice-based research approaches/methodologies/criticism
    

### Paper Review Process:

All paper submissions will be subjected to a rigorous double-blind peer review process by an international committee of experts. All of the submitted papers should demonstrate rigorous research methodology and will be evaluated according to the following criteria: novelty, academic quality, appropriateness of topic, importance, readability, ethical standards, and paper organization. Authors should also familiarize themselves with the [NIME statements](https://www.nime.org/statements/) on diversity and environmental issues.

The review process is as follows:

1.  Each paper submission will be assigned to at least 3 reviewers for independent evaluation.
2.  A meta-reviewer will moderate a discussion amongst the reviewers, write a summary review, and recommend whether to accept the paper.
3.  The paper chairs will make the final decision on paper acceptance and will inform the author(s) of their decision along with the reviewers’ comments.
    

Please note this review process is double-blind, meaning reviewers remain anonymous to the authors and vice-versa. It is expected that authors respect the [NIME Ethical guidelines for NIME publications](https://www.nime.org/ethics/).

If you’d like to register as a NIME reviewer (or are unsure if you’re already a reviewer), please register as a reviewer using [this form](https://forms.gle/9SNybWLP84ocCv2b6)

### Submission Guide:

NIME uses the CHI template for submissions. You can edit it using LaTeX, or as a Word document. [Templates for both LaTeX and Word can be found here.](https://nime2024.org/assets/files/NIME_Submission_Templates-2024.zip) We recommend using a service like [Overleaf](https://overleaf.com/) to edit and complete your submission.To submit:

1.  Export and download your Latex document or Word document as a PDF. **Note that your submission must be anonymised!**
2.  If you don’t already have an account for NIME’s conference management system (CMT), create one.
3.  Create a submission for NIME 2024 in [CMT3.](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2024)
4.  Include your title, abstract and co-authors, choose the categorisation for your submission, and comply with the NIME ethics requirements. Add your final, anonymised PDF.
    

Note: The deadline to create a submission is **January 31, 2024.** A PDF is not required at that time. 

You will then have until **February 7** to upload your paper as a PDF, and complete your submission.

### Requirements for presentation and inclusion in the NIME proceedings:

If your submission is accepted, these are the requirements for being included in the proceedings:

*   **NIME registration.** All presenting authors, whether presenting in person or online, must purchase a ticket to attend NIME.DEADLINE: MAY 7, 2024
*   **A camera-ready submission.** This is a final PDF version that is correctly formatted and ready for inclusion in the proceedings. Camera-ready papers should be added in CMT. DEADLINE: MAY 7, 2024
*   **A video submission.** For presentation and archiving purposes we require a video presentation up to 10 minutes in length. We will use this video to present papers from authors attending online. For authors attending in person there is the choice to present live or using the video, but the video submission is required for documentation.DEADLINE: MAY 31, 2024
*   **A thumbnail.** For presentation and archiving purposes we require a thumbnail representing your subject.DEADLINE: MAY 31, 2024
    

Your camera-ready submission and your video will be made publicly available.

### Video / Thumbnail submission guidelines

We encourage you to be creative with your video presentations. Most commonly these are in the form of a recorded screencast with slides.

*   Videos should be a maximum of 10 minutes in length
*   Minimum resolution: 1080p
*   Encoding: H.264 (often in video software exports as a YouTube preset), mp4
*   Upload: You will receive a link with an upload location.
*   Thumbnail: 4x3 aspect ratio. JPG, PNG and SVG. Resolution is at your discretion. Avoid transparency as we don’t know our thumbnail page background color yet.
    

### Presentation Format:

In person

*   10 minute presentation (choice of live or using the video submission)
*   10 minutes for questions (in person)

Online

*   10 minute presentation (via video submission)
*   10 minutes for questions (via Zoom)

### Posters

Posters will be available during poster sessions.For those not attending in person, we’ll ask for a poster file that can be printed and displayed at the conference. There will be an opportunity to have interaction with the conference participants through Zoom during the conference.

## Call For Music

NIME 2024 invites submission of proposals that showcase New Interfaces for Musical Expression in performance and composition. We look forward to receiving submissions that expand and reshape our understanding of NIME in the conceptualization, performance, and perception of music.

We ask you to submit performances with a length of 4-8 minutes when it is a staged theatre piece and 5 - 15 minutes if you apply for a club performance, however, proposals for shorter or longer performances will also be reviewed, in that case, requests for shorter versions are possible. Submissions can be for existing works as well as proposals for new ones. Due to the ongoing discussion within and outside NIME about environmental issues, submissions that focus on novel forms of online performance and hybrid variants will be given special consideration. We highly welcome submissions from authors from under-represented communities along the lines of race, sex, gender, gender identity, age, ability, socio-economic background or status in and outside of academia. In accordance with its theme, NIME2024 also welcomes submissions that focus on instruments that make a connection between the tactility of instruments in a hybridizing environment.

If a music submission is selected for performance at NIME, proposing artists are expected to be available to perform their work on any day of the conference. The NIME 2024 organization is unable to consider requests for musical performances to happen on specific days.

Please contact the general chairs with any questions regarding the suitability of a potential NIME performance submission with regard to the specific Utrecht venue situation. 

Take note of the options available at the music presentation formats/venues. There are for example special opportunities for spatial performances.

### Music Review Process:

Given the nature of music submissions, we understand that full anonymity may be difficult to achieve without compromising the supporting material. However, contributors should meet these basic criteria of anonymization:

*   Avoid any trace of the performers’ names and affiliations in the written material.
*   Avoid any trace of the performers’ names and affiliations in links and other references to outside material.
*   Identity and affiliations of the performer(s) should not be mentioned in the title, description or opening/closing credits of the submitted media.

All music submissions will be subjected to a rigorous double-blind peer review process by an international committee of experts. All of the submitted performances should be works showcasing new NIMEs, new NIME technology, new ways of performing with NIMEs etcetera. New insights/pieces with ‘older’ NIMEs are welcomed as well. Each submission will be evaluated according to the following criteria: novelty in performance/instrument, performance quality, appropriateness of topic, importance, ethical standards and presentation. There are no limitations or requirements concerning musical style. Authors should also familiarize themselves with the NIME statements on diversity and environmental issues.

1.  Each submission will be assigned to, at least, 3 reviewers for independent evaluation.  
2.  The music chairs will make the final decision on acceptance, also taking feasibility into account, and will inform the authors of their decision along with the reviewers’ comments.
    
Please note this review process is double-blind, meaning reviewers remain anonymous to the authors and vice-versa. It is expected that authors respect the [NIME Ethical guidelines for NIME publications.](https://www.nime.org/ethics/)

If you’d like to register as a NIME reviewer (or are unsure if you’re already a reviewer), please register as a reviewer using [this form.](https://forms.gle/9SNybWLP84ocCv2b6)

### Submission Guide:

NIME uses the CHI template for submissions. You can edit it using LaTeX, or as a Word document. [Templates for both LaTeX and Word can be found here.](https://nime2024.org/assets/files/NIME_Submission_Templates-2024.zip)We recommend using a service like [Overleaf](https://overleaf.com/) to edit and complete your submission.

1.  Export and download your Latex document or Word document as a PDF. **Note that your submission must be anonymised!**
2.  If you don’t already have an account for NIME’s conference management system, create one.
3.  Create a submission for NIME 2024 in [CMT3.](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2024/Submission/Index)
4.  Include your title, abstract and co-authors, choose the categorisation for your submission, and comply with the NIME ethics requirements. Add your final, anonymised PDF.
5.  Upload an anonymized (if possible) performance of your work as well.

Note: The deadline to create a submission is **January 31, 2024.** Neither a PDF nor the performance are required at that time.

You will then have until **February 14, 2024** to upload your performance submission as a PDF, and complete your submission.

Clarification of what is expected in each section of the music and installation submission template: Program notes: This is the text you want to appear in the concert and installation program, to be read by the audience, if your submission is accepted. Maximum 200 words.

Project description: Here you explain the background and context of the submitted work, and describe the underlying concepts and technologies, and whatever other information you want reviewers to know. This is also an opportunity to explain why this is relevant to the NIME community, and how it connects to the field. It will be read by reviewers, but if the submission is accepted, it will also be part of documentation for the future, in the form of music proceedings. It is not required to be an academic text.

Performance notes: This is equivalent to a tech rider. Here you describe the technical and practical requirements for the performance or installation, including needs in terms of space, props, furniture, sound amplification, and other things reviewers, music chairs, and organizers need to know to evaluate the feasibility of the work and plan for a potential performance. Please mention if the submission is particularly suitable for a particular venue (of those listed in the call). Also, please be clear about what you yourself is able to bring, e.g., in terms of technology, and what you expect us to provide. The total page count for the submission PDF is expected to be in the range of 2-6 pages.

### Requirements for presentation and inclusion in the NIME proceedings

If your submission is accepted, these are the requirements for being included in the proceedings:

*   **NIME registration.** All presenting authors/performers, whether presenting and attending NIME 2024 in person or online, must register and pay the appropriate fee. DEADLINE: May 7, 2024
*   **A camera-ready submission.** This is a final PDF version of documentation relating to your work that is correctly formatted and ready for inclusion in the proceedings. Camera-ready performance documentation should be added in [CMT3.](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2024/Submission/Index) (check the available upload options for video and audio)DEADLINE: May 7, 2024
*   **A video submission.** We will use this video to present performances from authors/performers attending online. For authors/performers attending in person there is a preference for live performance however we also recognise that the video may be more appropriate for some works and contexts. **Even for live performances, a video submission is required for documentation, backup/failsafe purposes and online participants in other time zones.**DEADLINE: May 31, 2024 
*   **A thumbnail.** For presentation and archiving purposes we require a thumbnail representing your subject.DEADLINE: May 31, 2024

Your camera-ready submission and your video will be made publicly available.

### Video / Thumbnail submission guidelines

The video upload for the proceeding submission should NOT be anonymized but be a close representation of the performance delivered at NIME.

*   Minimum resolution: 1080p
*   Encoding: H.264 (often in video software exports as a YouTube preset), mp4
*   Upload: You will receive a link with an upload location.
*   Thumbnail: 4x3 aspect ratio. JPG, PNG and SVG. This thumbnail will be used on the WEBsite for recognisability. Think of a picture of your instrument, a video still of a performance, an image evoking something related to the piece, etcetera. Resolution is at your discretion. Avoid transparency as we don’t know our thumbnail page background color yet.

### Music presentation format/venues:

The presentation format will depend on the author’s location and their ability to travel to Utrecht. In principal music submissions are performed in Utrecht. However, dependent on the submissions the organization will provide opportunities to present work online, either live, recorded or in a hybrid format, the latter is of special interest to the organization. NIME2024 will provide a number of different location opportunities for work to be presented in its optimal environment which includes spatialization options. These are as follows:

*   The main performance venue is Tivoli Vredenburg. Works can be submitted that will be presented in a performance space that seats 800 and has state of the art utilities for an optimal professional presentation.
*   The secondary venues that we’ll utilize are a few local Utrecht stages, venues that cater to performances that benefit from a club atmosphere. Imagine performances that are intermingled with socializing activities.
*   A special feature of NIME2024 is a performance dinner at ‘the Nijverheid’ in Utrecht. This location is part of a larger artist collective and has an atmosphere that people generally associate with artist free states like Cristiania or Burning man but also more low-key communes in any other part of the world. We seek performances and interactive installations that thrive in a vibrant interactive but also intimate environment. There is a stage for performances but anything can happen from small ‘acts at the table’ to interactive installations that thrive in a ‘country fair’ like environment.
*   HKU offers two opportunities for the performance of spatially inspired interactive works.
    *   The [Wave Field Synthesis array of the Game of Life Foundation.](https://gameoflife.nl/)Check [the special software page](https://gameoflife.nl/software/) to work with this system. The WFS system gets upgraded this and next year to improve accessibility. 
    *   The virtual acoustics system designed by Tijs Muijs and Antal van Nie. This unique system creates an artificial room experience using an array of special plate speakers, dedicated reverberation software and psychoacoustic manipulation.
    *   Due to the specifics of these technologies, they are applied in smaller spaces, we will work with a rotation system to organize these concerts. Be prepared to perform your submission more than once.
*   Due to the change in dates there are a few new opportunities that are currently explored. Please check back here for possible other opportunities.

Please make sure in your submission to indicate which is your preferred format/venue for performance and why. We especially need a good motivation for the special spatial oriented works. 

_Besides presenting your work at the conference, we want you to submit your work as a representative video submission as well that can be used for archival purposes and viewers online when a live stream is not possible._

## Call For Art Installations

NIME 2024 invites submission of proposals that showcase New Interfaces for Musical Expression in performance and composition. We look forward to receiving submissions that expand and reshape our understanding of NIME in the conceptualization, performance, and perception of music.

We invite submissions of art installations on new interfaces for musical expression. We encourage authors to consider this year's conference theme. NIME 2024 will provide several locations that can be used to exhibit new music installation works. See at the bottom for more details.

### Installation Review Process:

Contributors should meet these basic criteria of anonymization:

*   Avoid any trace of the artists’ names and affiliations in the written material.
*   Avoid any trace of the artists’ names and affiliations in links and other references to outside material.
*   Identity and affiliations of the performer(s) should not be mentioned in the title, description or opening/closing credits of the submitted media.

All installation submissions will be subjected to a rigorous double-blind peer review process by an international committee of experts. All of the submitted installations should be works showcasing new NIMEs, new NIME technology, new ways of interacting with NIMEs etcetera.Each submission will be evaluated according to the following criteria: novelty in interaction, installation quality, appropriateness of topic, importance, ethical standards and presentation. There are no limitations or requirements concerning style. Artists should also familiarize themselves with the [NIME statements](https://www.nime.org/statements/) on diversity and environmental issues.

1.  Each submission will be assigned to, at least, 3 reviewers for independent evaluation.  
2.  The music chairs will make the final decision on acceptance, also taking feasibility into account, and will inform the authors of their decision along with the reviewers’ comments.

Please note this review process is double-blind, meaning reviewers remain anonymous to the authors and vice-versa. It is expected that authors respect the [NIME Ethical guidelines for NIME publications.](https://www.nime.org/ethics/)

If you’d like to register as a NIME reviewer (or are unsure if you’re already a reviewer), please register as a reviewer using [this form.](https://forms.gle/9SNybWLP84ocCv2b6)

### Submission guide:

In order to present an installation for NIME 2024, please submit a proposal in the form of a PDF document containing the following information:

*   The title of the work
*   Names of contributing artists
*   A clear description of the proposed installation with photos, schematics diagram that could provide reviewers with a sense of its motivation and proposed realization.
*   A link to audio-visual documentation (if available). The documentation link should use an unrestricted streaming service, such as SoundCloud, Bilibili, or YouTube.
*   Space requirements: This should include size and space requirements to display your work. Please indicate whether the work would be more suitable for a university environment (hallways, staircases and indoor and outdoor plazas), gallery, public space or other venue. For networked & web-based work, please include the technical information and system requirements.
*   Floor Plan & Logistical requirement: This should indicate requirements for your installation, including how much time it requires to set up, diagrams for space utilization, networked needs, etc.
*   Feasibility: Provide evidence of the feasibility of the installation. Include documentation and list of previous installations of the submitted or related work that demonstrate the submitter’s capacity to implement the proposal.
*   Equipment Requirements: Clearly indicate what you will bring and what you would require the conference organizers to provide.

If an installation submission is selected for exhibition at NIME, proposing artists are expected to be available to exhibit their work during the whole conference starting with the workshop day (September 3).Please contact the general chairs with any questions regarding the suitability of a potential NIME performance submission with regard to the specific Utrecht venue situation.

NIME uses the CHI template for submissions. You can edit it using LaTeX, or as a Word document. [Templates for both LaTeX and Word can be found here.](https://nime2024.org/assets/files/NIME_Submission_Templates-2024.zip)We recommend using a service like [Overleaf](https://overleaf.com/) to edit and complete your submission. You can use the music template for installations as well.

### Installation Review Process:

1.  Export and download your Latex document or Word document as a PDF. **Note that your submission must be anonymised!**
2.  If you don’t already have an account for NIME’s conference management system, create one.
3.  Create a submission for NIME 2024 in [CMT3](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2024/Submission/Index).
4.  Include your title, abstract and co-authors, choose the categorisation for your submission, and comply with the NIME ethics requirements. Add your final, anonymised PDF.
5.  Upload an anonymized (if possible) performance of your work as well.

Note: The deadline to create a submission is **January 31, 2024**. A PDF nor the performance is not required at that time. 

You will then have until **February 14, 2024** to upload your performance submission as a PDF, and complete your submission.

Clarification of what is expected in each section of the music and installation submission template: Program notes: This is the text you want to appear in the concert and installation program, to be read by the audience, if your submission is accepted. Maximum 200 words.

Project description: Here you explain the background and context of the submitted work, and describe the underlying concepts and technologies, and whatever other information you want reviewers to know. This is also an opportunity to explain why this is relevant to the NIME community, and how it connects to the field. It will be read by reviewers, but if the submission is accepted, it will also be part of documentation for the future, in the form of music proceedings. It is not required to be an academic text.

Performance notes: This is equivalent to a tech rider. Here you describe the technical and practical requirements for the performance or installation, including needs in terms of space, props, furniture, sound amplification, and other things reviewers, music chairs, and organizers need to know to evaluate the feasibility of the work and plan for a potential performance. Please mention if the submission is particularly suitable for a particular venue (of those listed in the call). Also, please be clear about what you yourself is able to bring, e.g., in terms of technology, and what you expect us to provide. The total page count for the submission PDF is expected to be in the range of 2-6 pages.

### Requirements for presentation and inclusion in the NIME proceedings

If your submission is accepted, these are the requirements for being included in the proceedings:

*   **NIME registration.** All presenting authors/performers, whether presenting in person or online, must purchase a ticket to attend NIME.DEADLINE: May 7, 2024
*   **A camera-ready submission.** This is a final PDF version of your work that is correctly formatted and ready for inclusion in the proceedings. Camera-ready papers should be added in CMT3.DEADLINE: May 7, 2024
*   **A video submission.** For presentation and archiving purposes we require a video presentation of the performance. We will use this video to present papers from authors attending online. For authors attending in person there is the choice to present live or using the video, but the video submission is required for documentation, backup/failsafe purposes and online participants in other time zones.DEADLINE: May 31, 2024
*   **A thumbnail.** For presentation and archiving purposes we require a thumbnail representing your subject.DEADLINE: May 31, 2024

Your camera-ready submission and your video will be made publicly available.

### Video / Thumbnail submission guidelines

The video upload for the proceeding submission should NOT be anonymized but be a close representation of the installation delivered at NIME and can contain footage of people interacting with the installation, footage from the design process, interviews, context and whatever is needed to give a good impression of the work for people following NIME online and later watchers of the archive.

*   Maximum length 10 minutes
*   Minimum resolution: 1080p
*   Encoding: H.264 (often in video software exports as a YouTube preset), mp4
*   Upload: You will receive a link with an upload location.
*   Thumbnail: 4x3 aspect ratio. JPG, PNG and SVG. Resolution is at your discretion. Avoid transparency as we don’t know our thumbnail page background color yet.

### Presentation Format Art Installations:

The presentation format will depend on the author’s location and their ability to travel to Utrecht. In principle, art installations are showcased in Utrecht. However, depending on the submissions the organization will provide opportunities to present work online, either live, recorded or in a hybrid format, the latter is of special interest to the organization. NIME2024 will provide a number of different location opportunities for work to be presented in its optimal environment. These are as follows:

*   The main performance venue whose corridors and open spaces provide ample opportunity for interactive art installations to be showcased.
*   The Academy Gallery, which provides a typical gallery environment
*   The HKU building ‘Ina Boudier Bakkerlaan’ which is home to the game, design and music technology departments of HKU and provides space in different corridors (the workshops and some other program components are organized here as well).
*   The Nijverheid, an art community located in Utrecht which provides a nice outside venue. The (affordable) banquet will be organized here as well with opportunities for (interactive) performances.
*   The train station in Utrecht. Utrecht has the largest train station in the Netherlands with about 200000 travelers per day.

Please make sure in your submission to indicate which is your preferred venue (kind) for your installation and why.

Authors should also provide a documentation video of the installation for the online attendees. If an art installation is selected for exhibition at NIME and the proposing artists cannot attend the conference in person, we invite the artists to provide links and access that attendees can experience online.

_Besides presenting your work at the conference, we want you to submit your work as a representative video submission as well that can be used for archival purposes and viewers online when a live stream is not possible._

## Call For Workshops

We welcome proposals for workshops related (but not limited) to NIME research, topics relevant for the NIME community, NIME performance and this year’s theme.
You can make a proposal in which you address the following issues:

*   Workshop Title
*   Speaker List: Include Workshop organizer(s) with short bio(s) up to 200 words including background relating to proposed topic, and affiliation and contact information. Include additional speakers name(s), affiliation(s), and contact information.
*   Workshop Description up to 750 words, clearly describing the topic and nature of the workshop.
*   Short Description (abstract) up to 70 words, for conference program.
*   Preferred length of workshop (half-day, full-day, or number of hours).
*   Description of technical and space requirements (e.g. projector, speakers, computers, soldering equipment, etc.), Please include information on contingencies for in-person, virtual, and blended modes, and whether virtual and blended formats are possible for this Workshop and whether you would need special equipment for these.
*   Optional links to supporting audio, visual, and/or online documentation, e.g. a workshop web page. Any media materials should use an unrestricted streaming service such as Vimeo or Bilibili.

### Workshop Review Process:

All workshop submissions will be subjected to a single-blind peer review process by an international committee of experts. All of the submitted workshop proposals will be judged on the relevance for the community also considering the experience and professionalism of the workshop proposers and feasibility. Proposers should also familiarize themselves with the [NIME statements](https://www.nime.org/statements/) on diversity and environmental issues. The review process is as follows:

1.  Each proposal will be assigned to at least 3 reviewers for independent evaluation.
2.  The workshop chairs will make the final decision on workshop acceptance and will inform the author(s) of their decision along with the reviewers’ comments.

It is expected that proposers respect the [NIME Ethical guidelines for NIME publications.](https://www.nime.org/ethics/) If you’d like to register as a NIME reviewer (or are unsure if you’re already a reviewer), please register as a reviewer using [this form](https://forms.gle/9SNybWLP84ocCv2b6).

### Submission Guide:

NIME uses the CHI template for submissions. You can edit it using LaTeX, or as a Word document. [Templates for both LaTeX and Word can be found here.](https://nime2024.org/assets/files/NIME_Submission_Templates-2024.zip)We recommend using a service like [Overleaf](https://overleaf.com/) to edit and complete your submission.

1.  Export and download your Latex document or Word document as a PDF.
2.  If you don’t already have an account for NIME’s conference management system, create one.
3.  Create a submission for NIME 2024 in [CMT3.](https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/NIME2024/Submission/Index)
4.  Include your title, abstract and co-authors, choose the categorisation for your submission, and comply with the NIME ethics requirements. Add your final, PDF.

Note: The deadline to create a submission is **February 14, 2024.** A PDF is not required at that time. 
You will then have until February 21 to upload your paper as a PDF, and complete your submission.

### Workshop Review Process:

If your submission is accepted, these are the requirements for being included in the proceedings:

*   **NIME registration.** All presenting authors, whether presenting in person or online, must purchase a ticket to attend NIME.DEADLINE: MAY 7, 2024
*   **A camera-ready submission.** This is a final PDF version that is correctly formatted and ready for inclusion in the proceedings. Camera-ready workshop proposals should be added in CMT.DEADLINE: MAY 7, 2024
*   **At NIME.** You’ll get more instructions prior to NIME on how to organize your workshop depending on the specifics of your workshop.

Your camera-ready submission will be made publicly available.

## Student Consortium

This is the third year of the Student/Doctoral Consortium at NIME. We welcome applications from students who would like feedback from the NIME community on their conceptual, theoretical, technical and/or musical research components. Peers and senior scientists, interaction designers and computer musicians will be mixed for an open discussion about NIME related submissions. 

Ideal candidates will be early-stage or mid-way through their program, presenting some concrete research content within the NIME topics yet with no conclusive achievements already at hand. Candidates should clearly explain their contribution to the Consortium as well as the expected benefit from participating in it.

There are two different categories:

*   PhD students
*   Undergraduates and Graduates students

### Submission Information:

Proposals (maximum 5000 words) will include the following entries:

*   Title
*   Keywords
*   Research question(s) / Problem
*   Context / Theories 
*   Methods
*   Expected outcomes (what you hope to contribute and get from the Doctoral Consortium)
*   References/bibliography (not part of the word count) 
*   Optional:
*   Software
*   Video and audio recordings
*   Blueprints documenting music interface concepts and physical prototypes, either uploaded along with the main document or hyperlinked from it
*   A short recommendation letter from the Supervisor, also clarifying the student's year of study, research objectives, method, and activity in the context of the Department/Research Lab where the study is done.

### Consortium Review Process

The Graduate & undergraduate Consortium committee will review and select a limited number of candidates via a curation process that considers the quality of their work, and its possibilities to contribute to the creation of a multidisciplinary, diverse, balanced and ethical discussion forum furthermore highly profitable for the participants. Duplicated material submitted also to other NIME calls will be immediately rejected from the Graduate & undergraduate Consortium.

Authors should also familiarize themselves with the [NIME statements](https://www.nime.org/statements/) on diversity and environmental issues as well as the [NIME Ethical guidelines for NIME publications.](https://www.nime.org/ethics/)

### Submission Guide

NIME uses the CHI template for submissions. You can edit it using LaTeX, or as a Word document. [Templates for both LaTeX and Word can be found here.](https://nime2024.org/assets/files/NIME_Submission_Templates-2024.zip)We recommend using a service like [Overleaf](https://overleaf.com/) to edit and complete your submission.To submit

1.  Export and download your Latex document or Word document as a PDF. **Note that your submission must be anonymised!**
2.  If you don’t already have an account for NIME’s conference management system, create one.
3.  Create a submission for NIME 2024 in [CMT.](https://www.nime2024.org/)
4.  Include your title, abstract and co-authors, choose the categorisation for your submission, and comply with the NIME ethics requirements. Add your final, anonymised PDF.

Note: The deadline to create a submission is **February 14, 2024.** A PDF is not required at that time. 

You will then have until February 21 to upload your paper as a PDF, and complete your submission.

### Presentation Format:

We ask you to update your paper based on the feedback that you received from the review and based upon the latest updates in your research. You will be asked to deliver this updated paper two weeks in advance of the consortium (August 18, 23.59 AOE) as a ‘camera ready submission’ in the CMT3 system. This paper will be shared amongst the other participants and the chairs who will be attending the Consortium. Furthermore we want you to prepare three questions that you hope to get answered during the Student Consortium in relation to your research. Add those to your motivation for attending the SC part in the paper you provided. If you haven't got such a section yet, please add it. The Student Consortium will run two days before the beginning of the main conference, on September 2nd, with the Chairs actively participating in the event. Please note that the final papers won't be published in the NIME proceedings.

## Call For Work in Progress

We welcome submissions for work in progress on original research on scientific, cultural, and artistic development and use of new interfaces for musical expression.

Through this call we want to encourage a broader audience to take part in the conference, share their work and be able to get in touch with the NIME community. We especially encourage artists and creatives working outside of an academic context to submit their work in progress, as well as students from conservatoires and art academies. But of course, work-in-progress from academics is welcomed as well.

In the form linked below you can enter up to 1000 words to describe the work-in-progress, describe your motivation to join the conference, and upload up to three pictures, a thumbnail (see requirements below) and provide a link to audio-visual material (max 3 minutes; if the material is longer, we may not watch or listen to the full length).

The work-in-progress will be presented during the conference as an (in-person) demo, so you have to be in possession of a regular pass-partout or day ticket. The text that you put in the google form will be used as program information on the NIME 2024 website.

### Work in Progress Selection Process:

All submissions will be subjected to a check by the General Chairs whether the project has developed beyond the concept stage, e.g. there is a first functioning prototype that can be demonstrated or first results from the research can be shared and discussed meaningfully with the community.

Work in progress is not subject to peer review.

We will accept a maximum of one submission per author as work in progress, and give preference to authors who are not presenting other works at the conference. We strive for a good balance between newcomers to the NIME community and authors who have previously presented work at the NIME conference.

The deadline to make a submission is **July 15, 2024.** Submitters will be notified by email of acceptance by **July 31, 2024**.

### Requirements for presentation and inclusion on the NIME 2024 website:

If your submission is accepted, you will need to register for the NIME conference: all presenting authors must purchase a ticket to attend NIME, for work-in-progress presenters this can be a day ticket. Day tickets will become available from August onwards.

## Call For Jam Sessions

We are happy to announce another joyful addition to our program to entice you into participating in your own preferred mode. Not always do we want to write about our instruments or perform well thought out concerts. Long lived NIMEs do not always fit the requirements for both papers and music submissions since there is not always something fundamentally new to tell or show, but NIMEs and their players/performers do develop nonetheless. We might also like to just play our NIMEs in a musical meeting with other instruments or, even more special, other NIMEs just for the pure enjoyment of it.

In many editions of NIME there have been jam sessions and this NIME won’t be different. We will organize a jam session at the end of one of our concerts in Tivoli Vredenburg. We want to encourage players/performers of existing NIMEs to participate in our jam session which will have the form of a curated improvisation led by Music chair Palle Dahlstedt.

The Jam session will only be open to NIMEs. In principle these will be NIMEs that have been played/published at the conference before, but non NIME conference NIMEs are welcome as well. There should be at least three years of playing experience with the instrument.

In the form linked below you will be asked a number of questions that relate to your instrument, your motivation for participating and when applicable a description of your previous (NIME) work relating to the instrument that you will be playing during the session. We will also ask about your experience with (curated) improvisation.

### Jam session Selection Process:

All submissions will be subjected to a check by the Music Chairs. Criteria are the instrument’s maturity and the performer’s experience (with the instrument or NIMEs in general). In case of many submissions there might be a selection.

Jam session participation is not subject to peer review.

We will give preference to performers/instruments who are not presenting other works at the conference with the exception of the concert the jam session is attached to. We seek to make a selection that promises the most varied musical result.

The deadline to make a submission is **July 15, 2024.** Submitters will be notified by email of acceptance by **July 31, 2024**.

### Requirements for presentation and inclusion on the NIME 2024 website:

If your submission is accepted, you will need to register for the NIME conference: all presenting authors must purchase a ticket to attend NIME, for work-in-progress presenters this can be a day ticket. Day tickets will become available from August onwards.

## Coaching session with Sounds Like Touch

Sounds Like Touch is offering coaching sessions for performers in the NIME music tracks. This can help you to get some valuable feedback to improve your performance at the NIME conference.

Two formats are offered:

*   **Online:** in this format there will be a feedback session on Zoom together with up to two other acts, where you will get feedback both from invited professionals and the other performers based on the video that you have submitted. The videos will be watched beforehand.
*   **Physical:** in the days before the conference (on September 2nd or 3rd) you will meet in a rehearsal studio and play your performance (or a portion) and get feedback on that. This will also be done in a small group together with up to two other acts.

In the form linked below you can enter up to 1000 words to describe the work-in-progress, describe your motivation to join the conference, and upload up to three pictures, a thumbnail (see requirements below) and provide a link to audio-visual material (max 3 minutes; if the material is longer, we may not watch or listen to the full length).

For each format we offer (max) 3 sessions with (max) 3 performance acts. So in total there are 9 slots online and 9 slots physical. Given space, you may join both an online and physical session.
