# Call 2007


On behalf of the NIME07 Committee, we would like to invite you to be
part of the 7th International Conference on New Interfaces for
Musical Expression (NIME), organized by Harvestworks and New York
University's (NYU) Music Technology Program in partnership with the
NYU Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP).

We encourage contributions of the following kinds:

* Papers (full-length, short-length, posters)
* Demos
* Live Performances
* Installations

Complete submission guidelines are now available at
http://www.nime.org/2007. The on-line submission interface will be
available for use by October 16.

## IMPORTANT DATES

Submission deadlines

Installations and Performances

- January 31st 2007: Papers/posters, Demos, Live Performances, Installations

Notification of acceptance

- March 9th 2007: Papers/posters, Demos, Live Performances, Installations

Registration deadlines

- April 16th 2007: Early Registration (reduced fee)

Final text submission deadline

- April 16th 2007: Complete Camera-ready Papers and Abstracts

## PAPERS/POSTERS

We invite the submission of papers on topics related to new
interfaces for music performance including, but not restricted to

* Novel controllers and interfaces for musical expression
* Novel controllers for collaborative performance
* Novel musical instruments
* Augmented/hyper instruments
* Interfaces for dance and physical expression
* Interactive sound and multimedia installations
* Interactive sonification
* Sensor and actuator technologies
* Haptic and force feedback devices
* Interface protocols and data formats
* Gesture and music
* Robotics and music
* Perceptual & cognitive issues
* Interactivity design and software tools
* Musical mapping strategies
* Performance analysis and machine learning
* Performance rendering and generative algorithms
* Experiences with novel interfaces in education and entertainment
* Experiences with novel interfaces in live performance and composition
* Surveys of past work and stimulating ideas for future research
* Historical studies in twentieth-century instrument design
* Reports on students projects in the framework of NIME related courses
* Artistic, cultural, and social impact of NIME technology

Accepted presentation types are:

- Full Paper (6 pages in proceedings, longer oral presentation)
- Short Paper (4 pages in proceedings, shorter oral presentation)
- Poster (2 or 4 pages in proceedings, poster presentation)

## DEMOS

Demo Sessions are an opportunity to support and discuss realized or
partially realized work with conference attendees, in an informal,
discursive way.  Demos of technologies and applications that address
the topics listed above will be considered for selection.
Demonstrations are designed to give exhibitors an opportunity to show
material that benefits from having a physical presence at the
conference.  It is important that there be a realized, demonstrable,
working component to all submissions to this category.  This is not
to say that Demos cannot be sketches or further ideas or future plans
for the project - but an activity, process, action or actionable form
of the concept must exist as part of the Demo proposed.

Demos must include a 2 page poster to be displayed at the Demo
Sessions and included in the printed proceedings.  The poster should
address the scientific/technical aspects of the project, acquired
experiences and/or the context of the development.

For those submitting papers, we will provide the possibility of
scheduling demo presentations within the dedicated Demo Sessions. The
submission procedure will allow that a Demo option be chosen for any
Paper submission.   An accepted paper will not guarantee an accepted
demo.

Accepted presentation types are:

- Demo (Demonstration space plus 2 pages in proceedings)


## LIVE PERFORMANCES

A series of three evening concerts as well as 'NIME-at-night' events
at clubs will be organized during the conference to highlight
creative use of interactive instrument technology and performance
systems.  One of the evening concerts will feature commissioned
performers playing work from their repertoire as well as pieces
submitted through the Live Performances call.

We welcome proposals for performances to be featured in the NIME 07 concerts.

Accepted presentation types are:

- Concert Performance (Performance slot plus program note in proceedings)
- Club Performance (Performance slot plus program note in proceedings)
- New Work for Commissioned Performer (Performance by commissioned
performer plus program note in proceedings)

## INSTALLATIONS

The NIME Installations category is intended to address submissions
that deal with the subjects listed above, but are intended for
public-space or art gallery contexts.  Accepted Installations will be
shown for the full 3 days of the conference, beginning on the morning
on Thursday, June 7th and ending in the evening on Saturday June 9th.
The Installations venue for NIME 2007 will also be open to the
general public.  Installation submissions will be judge by artistic
merit, interactivity, relevance to NIME, innovation, exhibition
history experience and practicality criteria.  A one-paragraph
description of the Installation project must be submitted with other
required materials, and will be included in the conference
proceedings.

Accepted submissions to the Installation category will be exhibited
in an environment appropriate to a public-space and gallery context.
NIME 2007 is obtaining special facilities in New York City, near
other conference events for exhibition of accepted Installation
projects. Please check the NIME site in November for floor plan
details and photos of the space. The number of accepted submission
will be partially subject to available space.

Accepted presentation types are:

- Installations (Installation space plus brief description in proceedings)


## SPECIAL FOCUS ON ROBOTICS AND MUSIC

NIME07 will include a number of events specially focused on robotics
and music. These will include a keynote speaker from the field of
robotics and music, a special workshop on the subject and a concert
series the weekend before NIME07.

Therefore, we are especially inviting submissions in all categories
in the area of Robotics and Music. Special consideration will be
given to competent submissions in this area.

## VENDOR BOOTHS

For presentations of commercial products and companies not associated
with a conference submission, there will be exhibit booths.   Please
contact Dana Karwas at vendors@nime2007.org.

## WORKSHOPS, SPECIAL SESSION AND ASSOCIATED EVENTS

- June 6, morning: Workshop on Music and Robotics. Details on how to participate in the Music and Robotics workshop to come.

- June 7: NIME 07 Day One

- June 8: NIME 07 Day Two

- June 9: NIME 07 Day Three

- June 1st to June 10th: Harvestworks 30th Anniversary Festival

NIME 07 organized site visits, additional workshops and off-concerts
including jam sessions are planned.
