# Call 2017

- General Co-Chairs: Dan Overholt and Stefania Serafin, Aalborg University Copenhagen
- Scientific Chairs: Cumhur Erkut, Amalia De Goetzen,  Aalborg University Copenhagen

http://www.nime2017.org

Introduction
============

NIME (New Interfaces for Musical Expression) is the premier conference
in designing human-machine interfaces and interactions for musical
performance. NIME gathers researchers and practitioners together for
lectures, installations, concerts, and workshops.

NIME 2017 will be held in Copenhagen, Denmark, between 15-19 May 2017.
<http://www.nime2017.org>

Call for Participation
======================

On behalf of the NIME 2017 Committee, we would like to invite you to be
part of the 17th international conference on New Interfaces for Musical
Expression. We invite submission of new works in the following
categories:

-   Papers and Posters
-   Performances, Installations and Exhibitions
-   Demonstrations
-   Workshops and Unconference day activities

Important Dates
===============

-   Submission: January 24, 2017.

-   In order to be included in the peer review process your submission
    must be received by 11:59pm Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) on this date.

    However, you will be able to make updates to your documents and
    video until 11:59pm on 31st of Jan 2017, after which they will be
    sent to reviewers.

-   Review notification: March 28, 2017

-   Camera-ready paper/program note deadline: April 18, 2017

Submit Online
=============

All submissions to NIME 2017 are managed via a conference system. Details will be announced soon.

Process
=======

Submissions that extend, stretch, or challenge the NIME topics and themes are welcome. Submissions should be made at the dedicated submission site.

This year we are encouraging *all* submissions (including papers) to include a short video, that assists in demonstrating the research claims, performance aesthetic, quality of demonstration, etc. The video should be one minute, H.264 encoded MP4 with 16:9 aspect ratio. See <https://chi2017.acm.org/video-submission.html> for further instructions on video and note that performance and installation videos can be longer in duration.

Papers, video or program notes from all accepted submissions will be
published in the conference proceedings, under an ISSN/ISBN reference,
and will be archived online after the conference to be tracked by
citation tools.

All submissions will be subject to a peer review process by an
international expert committee. The review process will be double-blind
for all categories [^1].

Call for Papers
===============

We invite academic papers describing original research on new interfaces
for musical expression. Papers should be up to 6 pages in length,
formatted according to the paper template provided at
<http://www.nime2017.org/attend/>.

Authors are strongly encouraged to also submit a short video abstract in
support of their paper. Submissions must provide an original
contribution to NIME research, appropriately cite prior related work,
and demonstrate a rigorous research methodology. A manuscript submitted
for review cannot be already under review for publication elsewhere or
be submitted for a second review elsewhere while under review for NIME
2017.

There are two different paper presentation options:

-   Oral presentation
-   Poster presentation

Please indicate your preferred presentation option during the submission
process. The program committee reserves the right to allocate accepted
paper submissions into either category regardless of the indicated
preference.

A best paper award will be presented to the individual(s) judged by the
paper committee to have written the best paper appearing in the
conference proceedings.

The templates for submitting papers to the scientific program at NIME
2017 will be provided here.

Call for Demonstrations
=======================

We welcome submissions of original instruments and technologies designed
for use as new interfaces for musical expression to be demonstrated
during the conference.

Proposals should include a max 2 page description in the NIME paper
format (above) and a short video abstract, both of which will appear in
the conference proceedings. A 1 page description of technical
requirements for the demonstration is also required. The template for
technical requirements are provided at
<http://www.nime2017.org/attend/>.

A best demonstration award will be judged by the selection committee and
presented to the individual(s) responsible at the conference.

Call for Performances and Installations
=======================================

We invite submission of proposals for performances and installations.
Novel and exploratory use of new interfaces is encouraged. Proposed
performances and installations should have a clear connection with the
substance of the NIME conference and may be connected to a poster or
demo submission.

Our resident musicians will include the [Figura](http://www.figura.dk/),
a top-tier Copenhagen-based new music ensemble, the [Electronic Music
Machines Musical Instruments (EMMI)](http://www.expressivemachines.com/)
ensemble (USA) and the New York Times-celebrated flutist Margaret
Lancaster. Evening and lunch concerts and sound installations will be
presented at Medialogy, AAU as well as at major cultural institutions
around Copenhagen.

Therefore, in addition to the general NIME submissions, we invite
proposals that will feature our guest talents with or without an
additional interface or performance component:

-   Flute (standard, alto, bass and piccolo) and any
    extensions/modifications performed by a single player

-   Figura Ensemble (voice, clarinet, double bass, percussion)

-   Electronic Music Machines Musical Instruments (EMMI) ensemble

We will consider submissions of existing works as well as proposals for
new ones. Selected composers will work closely with our musicians in
realization of the pieces.

The music proposals should include a one-page description, program
notes, artist bios, and a 2-3 minute video preview, along with a 1 page
description of technical requirements. The video preview will be used
for the purposes of review and selection. Video documentation of all
performances and installations will occur during the conference, where
practicable, and be made available online following the conference.

Please keep in mind the following when preparing performance and
installation submissions:

-   **Space requirements**. Indicate whether the work would be more
    suitable for a university environment (hallways, staircases and
    indoor and outdoor plazas), club, traditional concert stage,
    gallery, public space or other venue.

-   **Performer(s)**. List any instrumental performers from our talent
    list that would need to be involved. Please note that the organizers
    cannot provide funding to support any additional performers’ travel
    or accommodation.

-   **Feasibility**. Provide evidence of the feasibility of the
    performance or installation. For example documentation and listings
    of past performances or related works that demonstrate the
    submitter’s capacity to implement the proposal.

-   **Collaborators**. Include the names of all participants/submitters,
    with a short bio for each (100 words).

Call for Workshops
==================

We invite submissions for two categories of workshops.

NIME Workshops ::   Targeted at the NIME community and conference delegates. Either
    half-day (3 hours) or full-day (6 hours). These can be targeted
    towards specialist techniques, platforms, hardware, software or
    pedagogical topics for the advancement of fellow NIME-ers and people
    with experience related to the topic. NIME Workshops will be held at
    the Aalborg University Copenhagen; with facilities typical of a university
    media technology department.

Unconference Workshops :   Relevant to a broader range of participants. Either short (1 hour)
    or long (3 hour) workshops targeted toward visitors to the NIME
    community, novices/newbies, interested student participants, people
    from other fields, and members of the public getting to know the
    potential of NIME.

The NIME committee reserves the right to suggest workshop category
reallocation if required.

Workshop proposals should clearly indicate the audience and assumed
knowledge of their intended participants to help us market to the
appropriate audience. Workshops can relate to, but are not limited to,
the topics of the conference. This is a good opportunity to explore a
specialized interest or interdisciplinary topic in depth with greater
time for discourse, debate, and collaboration.

Review Process
==============

Submissions will go through a rigorous review process. Overall, the
review process comprises three layers of evaluation: reviewer,
meta-reviewer, and track chairs.

The process is as follows:

-   Each submission is assigned to one meta-reviewer representative of a
    topic category.
-   The meta-reviewer together with the area chairs assigns the
    submission to reviewers for evaluation. Each submission has at least
    two reviewers.
-   The meta-reviewer moderates the area based on the reviewers’
    comments and may add their own comments.
-   Area chairs collate reviews and moderation input. In discussion with
    the meta-reviewers he or she finalizes the decision for
    each submission.
-   Reviewers remain anonymous to the authors and vice
    versa (double-blind) [^1].

Topics
======

Original contributions are encouraged in, but not limited to, the
following topics:

-   Novel controllers, interfaces or instruments for musical expression
-   Augmented/hyper instruments
-   Novel technologies for collaborative performance
-   Theoretical or philosophical discussions about performing with new
    interfaces
-   Sensor, actuator technologies, haptic and force feedback devices
-   Explorations of the relationship between motion, gesture and music
-   Interfaces for musical expression for people with special needs
-   Musical applications of robotics
-   New performance paradigms for mobile music technologies
-   Musical mapping strategies
-   Embedded musical instruments and embedded sound art installations
-   Interactive sound art and installations
-   Musical human-computer interaction
-   Interface protocols and data formats
-   Performance rendering and generative algorithms
-   Machine learning in musical performance
-   Artistic, cultural, and social impact of NIME technology
-   User studies and evaluations of new interfaces for musical
    expression

Footnote
========

[^1]: NIME, like CHI, will use a relaxed model that does not attempt to
    conceal all traces of identity from the body of the paper. Authors
    are expected to keep the template authors as they are, or remove
    author and institutional identities from the title and header areas
    of the paper, as noted in the submission instructions (Note:
    changing the text color of the author information is not
    sufficient). Also, please make sure that identifying information
    does not appear in the document’s meta-data (e.g., the ‘Authors’
    field in your word processor’s ‘Save As’ dialog box). Further
    suppression of identity in the body of the paper is left to the
    authors’ discretion. We do expect that authors leave citations to
    their previous work unanonymized, so that reviewers can ensure that
    all previous research has been taken into account by the authors.
    However, authors are encouraged to cite their own work in the third
    person, e.g., avoid “As described in our previous work [10], …”
    and use instead “As described by [10], …”
