# Call 2012


On behalf of the NIME 2012 Committee, we would like to invite you to be part of the 12th international conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression conference, organized by the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor, USA.

The conference web-site can be found at:

http://www.eecs.umich.edu/nime2012

We invite submission of new works in the following categories:

* Paper (oral/poster/demo)
* Performance
* Installation
* Workshop

IMPORTANT DATES

* Paper/performance/installation/workshop submission: 31 January 2012
* Review notification: 16 March 2012
* Final paper deadline: 20 April 2012

For any further information/questions/comments/suggestions, please contact the organizing committee.

TOPICS

* Novel controllers and interfaces for musical expression
* Novel musical instruments
* Mobile music technologies
* Augmented/hyper instruments
* Novel controllers for collaborative performance
* Interfaces for dance and physical expression
* Interactive game music
* Robotic music
* Interactive sound and multimedia installations
* Interactive sonification
* Sensor and actuator technologies
* Haptic and force feedback devices
* Interface protocols and data formats
* Motion, gesture and music
* Perceptual and cognitive issues
* Interactivity design and software tools
* Sonic interaction design
* NIME intersecting with game design
* Musical mapping strategies
* Performance analysis
* Performance rendering and generative algorithms
* Machine learning in performance systems
* Experiences with novel interfaces in live performance and composition
* Surveys of past work and stimulating ideas for future research
* Historical studies in twentieth-century instrument design
* Experiences with novel interfaces in education and entertainment
* Reports on student projects in the framework of NIME related courses
* Artistic, cultural, and social impact of NIME technology
* Biological and bio-inspired systems
* Musical human-computer interaction
* Multimodal expressive interfaces
* Practice-based research approaches/methodologies/criticism

CALL FOR PAPERS

We welcome submissions of original research on all above mentioned (and other) topics related to development and artistic use of new interfaces for musical expression. There are three different paper submission categories:

* Full paper (up to 6 pages in proceedings, longer oral presentation, optional demo)
* Short paper/poster (up to 4 pages in proceedings, shorter oral presentation or poster, optional demo)
* Demonstration (up to 2 pages in proceedings)

Please use this template when preparing your manuscript. Submitted papers will be subject to a single-blind peer review process by an international expert committee. All accepted papers will be published in the conference proceedings, under an ISSN/ISBN reference, and will be available online after the conference.

Paper submission information

CALL FOR PERFORMANCES

We welcome submission of proposals for performances. Proposed performances should have a clear connection with the substance of the NIME conference. Performance proposals in conjunction with paper submissions are encouraged, but each will be judged on its own merit. Within reasonable limits, we may be able to provide musicians to perform pieces. Typical NIME performance pieces last for 5-15 minutes, but shorter and longer performance proposals may also be taken into consideration.

Submitted proposals will be reviewed by an expert committee. Preference will be given to submissions with strong evidence that the proposed performance has already been realized or is technically feasible and within the artists' capabilities. Documentation of the performances will be available online after the conference.

CALL FOR INSTALLATIONS

We will have a number of locations that can be used to exhibit new music installation work. These are foyer location installations or room-based installations in connection to the conference venues. High and open indoor space is available.

Submitted proposals will be subject to a peer review process by an international expert committee. Documentation of the installations will be available online after the conference.

CALL FOR WORKSHOPS

We call for short (3 hours) or long (6 hours) workshops and tutorials. These can be targeted towards specialist techniques, platforms, hardware, software or pedagogical topics for the advancement of fellow NIME-ers and people with experience related to the topic. They can also be targeted towards visitors to the NIME community, novices/newbies, interested student participants, people from other fields, and members of the public getting to know the potential of NIME.

Tutorial proposers should clearly indicate the audience and assumed knowledge of their intended participants to help us market to the appropriate audience. Workshops and tutorials can relate to, but are not limited to, the topics of the conference. This is a good opportunity to explore a specialised interest or interdisciplinary topic in depth with greater time for discourse, debate, collaboration.

Admission to workshops and tutorials will be charged separately from the main conference. Proposer(s) are responsible for publishing any workshop proceedings (if desired) and should engage in the promotion of their event amongst own networks. Workshops may be cancelled or combined if there is inadequate participation.
