# Call 2013

13th International Conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression (NIME)    
May 27-30, 2013, Daejeon + Seoul, Korea Republic    
http://www.nime2013.org    


## CALL FOR PARTICIPATION

On behalf of the NIME 2012 Committee, We would like to invite you to be part of the 13th international conference on New Interfaces for Musical Expression conference.

We invite submission of new works in the following categories:

- Paper (oral/poster/demo)
- Performance
- Installation
- Workshop

### Important dates:

- Paper/performance/installation/workshop submissions due: February 1, 2013
- Review notification: March 16, 2013
- Camera-ready paper deadline: April 21, 2013

### Topics include (but are not limited to):

- Novel controllers and interfaces for musical expression
- Novel musical instruments
- Augmented/hyper instruments
- Novel controllers for collaborative performance
- Sensor and actuator technologies
- Haptic and force feedback devices
- Motion, gesture and music
- Interfaces for dance and physical expression
- Multimodal expressive interfaces
- Interfaces for hearing or visually impaired for musical expression
- Interactive game music
- NIME intersecting with game design
- Robotic music
- Mobile music technology and performance paradigm
- Biological and bio-inspired systems
- Musical mapping strategies
- Interactive sonification
- Interactive sound and multimedia installations
- Musical human-computer interaction
- Interactivity design and software tools
- Interface protocols and data formats
- Sonic interaction design
- Perceptual and cognitive issues
- Performance analysis
- Performance rendering and generative algorithms
- Machine learning in performance systems
- Experiences with novel interfaces in live performance and composition
- Surveys of past work and stimulating ideas for future research
- Historical studies in twentieth-century instrument design
- Artistic, cultural, and social impact of NIME technology
- Experiences with novel interfaces in education and entertainment
- Reports on student projects in the framework of NIME related courses
- Practice-based research approaches/methodologies/criticism


### Call for Papers

We welcome submissions of original research on all above-mentioned (and other) topics related to development and artistic use of new interfaces for musical expression. There are three different paper submission categories:

- Full paper (up to 6 pages in proceedings, longer oral presentation, optional demo)
- Short paper/poster (up to 4 pages in proceedings, shorter oral presentation or poster, optional demo)
- Demonstration (up to 2 pages in proceedings)

Submitted papers will be subject to a peer review process by an international expert committee. All accepted papers will be published in the conference proceedings, under an ISSN/ISBN reference, and will be available online after the conference. A manuscript submitted for review cannot be already under review for publication elsewhere, or be submitted for a second review elsewhere while under review for NIME 2013.


### Call for Performances

We welcome submission of proposals for performances. Proposed performances should have a clear connection with the substance of the NIME conference. Performance proposals in conjunction with paper submissions are encouraged, but each will be judged on its own merit. Within reasonable limits, we may be able to provide musicians to perform pieces. Typical NIME performance pieces last for 5-15 minutes, but shorter and longer performance proposals may also be taken into consideration.

Submitted proposals will be reviewed by an expert committee. Preference will be given to submissions with strong evidence that the proposed performance has already been realized or is technically feasible and within the artists' capabilities. Documentation of the performances will be available online after the conference.


### Call for Installations

NIME 2013 will also provide several locations that can be used to exhibit new music installation work. These are foyer location installations or room-based installations in connection to the conference venues.

Submitted proposals will be subject to a peer review process by an international expert committee. Documentation of the installations will be available online after the conference.


### Call for Workshops

We call for short (3 hours) or long (6 hours) workshops and tutorials. These can be targeted towards specialist techniques, platforms, hardware, software or pedagogical topics for the advancement of fellow NIME-ers and people with experience related to the topic. They can also be targeted towards visitors to the NIME community, novices/newbies, interested student participants, people from other fields, and members of the public getting to know the potential of NIME.

Tutorial proposers should clearly indicate the audience and assumed knowledge of their intended participants to help us market to the appropriate audience. Workshops and tutorials can relate to, but are not limited to, the topics of the conference. This is a good opportunity to explore a specialized interest or interdisciplinary topic in depth with greater time for discourse, debate, and collaboration.
