# Call 2005

International Conference on
New Interfaces for Musical Expression
Vancouver, Canada
May 26-28, 2005
http://hct.ece.ubc.ca/nime/2005/

NIME 2005 Call for Participation

On behalf of the NIME 2005 Committee, we extend an invitation to you to be part of the  New Interfaces for Musical Expression conference. Please join us  at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, Canada for the latest developments in musical interface design and musical expression presented in papers, performances, demos and installations. NIME 2005  marks the 5th conference on new musical interface design to follow the initial NIME workshop at CHI 2001, and subsequent international conferences held in Dublin, Montreal and Hamamatsu.  As in previous years, NIME 05 will provide a unique opportunity to converge with an audience of like-minded artists and technologists from around the world.  Our keynote speaker will be Don Buchla.  Bill Buxton and Golan Levin will be giving invited talks.


PAPERS

We invite the submission of research papers, reports, and posters on
topics related to new musical controllers including, but not
restricted to:

* Design reports on novel controllers and interfaces for musical
expression
* Surveys of past work and/or stimulating ideas for future
research
* Performance experience reports on live performance and
composition using novel controllers
* Controllers for virtuosic performers, novices, education and
entertainment
* Perceptual & cognitive issues in the design of musical
controllers
* Music and motion and/or music and emotion
* Movement, visual and physical expression with sonic expressivity
* Musical mapping algorithms and intelligent controllers
* Novel controllers for collaborative performance
* Interface protocols (e.g. MIDI) and alternative controllers
* Artistic, cultural, and social impact of new performance
interfaces
* Real-time gestural control in musical performance
* Mapping strategies and their influence on digital musical
instrument design
* Sensor and actuator technologies for musical applications
* Haptic and force feedback devices for musical control
* Real-time software tools and interactive systems
* Pedagogical applications of new interfaces - Courses and
curricula
* Performance rendering system (RENCON)
* Evaluation criteria for evaluating rendered music (RENCON)


DEMOS

We encourage the submission of demos, either as part of papers and
reports or as standalone contributions.


PERFORMANCES

We encourage artists, performers and conference presenters to submit
proposals for performances and live demonstrations that employ new
musical controllers, novel interface concepts, and/or new mapping
systems that can be featured in the concert events.


INTERATIVE SOUND INSTALLATIONS: *new this year*

At the University of British Columbia, we are creating a new high-tech
atrium that contains a multichannel sound and video scape platform
that will be complete by December 15, 2004. The space is intended to
house interactive sound and video installation works. As an experiment
for this year's NIME, we are soliciting for proposals for an
Installation Track to create interactive installation works in this
space. Please contact the installation track chair for more details
about this facility or if you are interested in submitting for the
installation track.


IMPROV SESSIONS: *new this year*

For the first time at NIME there will be semi-organized improvisation
sessions where scientists, engineers, artists and performers can
interact with one another. Different configurations and groups will be
put together based on types of sensors used for gesture recognition,
genre of sound-mapping, ethnomusicological controllers, rhythm vs
soundscape controllers, interfaces with motors, etc. There will be 3
Improv Sessions in the afternoons everyday during lunch and then a
final jam concert party on the final night. For more information
contact the Improv Sessions Chair, Ajay Kapur.


WORKSHOPS

There are two one-day workshops scheduled the day before the main
conference:

* Mobile Music
http://hct.ece.ubc.ca/nime/2005/mobilemusic.html
* Engineering and Music
http://hct.ece.ubc.ca/nime/2005/engineeringandmusic.html


IMPORTANT DATES - (ONLINE SUBMISSION IS OPEN)

Jan 15, 2005: Submission deadline (interactive sound installation
proposals)
Jan 31, 2005: Submission deadline (performance proposals, papers,
reports, demos, posters)
Feb  7, 2005: Notification of acceptance for installations.
Mar 14, 2005: Notification of acceptance for performances.
Mar 15, 2005: Notification of acceptance for papers, reports, posters
and demos.
Mar 31, 2005: Early registration deadline.
Apr 15, 2005: Program notes submission deadline (performances);
final paper submission deadline (papers, reports,
posters).


CONFERENCE CHAIRS

* Sidney Fels (ssfels@ece.ubc.ca)
* Tina "Bean" Blaine (tblaine@andrew.cmu.edu)


MORE INFORMATION

http://hct.ece.ubc.ca/nime/2005/
